---
Title: To Support *blake2b* Hashing in Solidity VM 
Author(s): Rakesh Gohel
Type: ASC (Aion Standards and Conventions)
Status: DRAFT
Creation Date: October 2, 2018
Contact Information: rakesh@mavennet.com
---

## Summary

Need for a method to calculate blake2b hash in Aion solidity.

## Value Proposition

Aion kernel's internal hash function is blake2b and being so popular fast hash function should be accessible in the smart contract.

## Motivation

The primary motivation for the proposol is to support blake2b hash in bridge operator contract proposed in AIP-005. The signatories or validators and the bridge operator currently use blake2b hash when they sign bundles. Thus, when given list of transfer transactions and source block hash, the smart contract needs to have access to generate the *blake2b* hash and perform signature verfication.

## Non-Goals

The scope of this document is for supporting black2b hash function only for Aion kernel; the other hashing functions are not included. 

## Success Metrics

The key indicator of success for this function can be measured by number of contracts using them. The bidirectional bridge has bridge operator contract which consumes this functionality.

## Description

The signatories or validators can use the Aion's ecosystem provided methods to sign and verify the bundles produced by bridge operator. The AION supports ED25519 curve with blake2b hash function.

The `singatory` already has access to *blake2b* hash function from Aion Ecosystem. When a bundle is signed and sent to bridge operator contract, the bridge operator contract validates publicly on blockchain that whoever claims to be signatory is genuine entity. To verify the hash on blockchain using smart contract requires solidity to support this function through a method. Currently, Aion solidity does not have a capability to perform *blake2b* hashing.

### High-Level Architecture
N/A

## Specification

### Definitions

- Bridge Operator: An organization(s) / project (s) / account that execute the required functions to enable a cross-chain transaction on behalf of the token holder
- Bridge Contract: A smart contract designed to receive, verify and emit events and signature bundles from/to a specific bridge
- Signatory/validator : The entity which independently goes to the source chain to verify the bundle transfer initiated by bridge operator. 

### Method

A `public` function must be implemented.

**`blake2b` function**

Returns hash of the arguments (tightly coupled).

> **parameters**  
> `...`: Arguments.  
> **returns:** bytes32.

``` solidity
    function blake2b(...) public returns (bytes32);
```


## Logic

Tightly pack the arguments before initiating *blake2b* hash.

### Cross Chain Functionality

No cross chain function's involved for this AIP.

## Risks & Assumptions

*Compatibility notes*:  
*Blake2b* hash is natively available in Aion chain, but may not be the case with different blockchains. Thus if Aion contract needs to be ported on any Ethereum compatible smart contract, the destination blockchain's hash function should be used.

## Test Cases

N/A

## Implementations

N/A

## Dependencies

N/A

## Copyright

All AIP’s are public domain. Copyright waiver: https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
