---
**AIP**: 000
**Title**: AIP Objectives and Guidelines
**Status**: ACCEPTED
**Type**: Procedure
**Author**: Sam Pajot-Phipps (sam@aion.network), Jiaying Wang(jennifer@aion.network), Kelvin Lam(kelvin@aion.network)
**Created**: Aug 26th, 2019
---

## AIP Definition

An AIP is an Aion Improvement Proposal. An AIP can be proposed by anyone in the Aion community. The proposal is a document which provides a concise overview to the Aion community of a new process, functionality, standard or convention. The document should be thorough, technically precise and provide a clear motivation for the proposal. Proposal are submitted by one or more authors, these authors are responsible for the creation, modifications, socialization and most importantly - consensus building around the proposal.

## Objective of AIP's 

AIP’s serve as the formal process for the Aion community to suggest, debate, collaborate and come to a consensus on improvements to the Aion codebase and its surrounding ecosystem. AIP’s and this repository also serve as a documentation trail for all upgrades, discussions and suggestions. 

## Definitions

 1. **AIP**: Aion Improvement Proposal

 2. **AIP Editor**: Responsible for managing the AIP Repo and enforcing the AIP guidelines.
<br> Current AIP Editor:
    
    - Jiaying Wang (jennifer@aion.network) 
    - Kelvin Lam (kelvin@aion.network)

3. **AIP Gate Keeper**: Responsible for defining if an AIP is valid or not. The AIP Gate Keeper is also responsible for organizing a *Design Authority* dedicates for each core AIP.
<br> Current AIP Gate Keeper:
    - Minh Tran (minh@aion.network) 
   
4. **Design Authority**: This committee will be assigned by the AIP Gate Keeper to a Core AIP. This committee brings together a diverse set of opinion and technical experience to evaluate Core AIP's and provide a recommended course of action.


## Types of AIP's

1. **Core**: Core AIP’s cover the majority of changes to the Aion network. The improvements these proposals suggest must be enforced via a hard-fork. Core proposals can be improvements to the economy, protocol, consensus, address formats, p2p messages, virtual machines, etc.

2. **Aion Standard & Conventions(ASC)**: These proposals relate to application layer elements:
   
   - Token standards, registries, wallet and address formats.
   - General information, guidelines, or templates as they relate to the broader Aion community.
  
3. **Interface**: These proposals relate to clients, API’s/RPC design and specifications. Things like web3.js would fit into this category.

4. **Procesure**: Procedure proposals relate to surrounding processes, decision-making, and governance of the Aion ecosystem. While these might not result in material-technical changes, they still require community engagement, and will result in changes that individuals may action.
 



## AIP Content Template

### Header
 * Title
 * Author(s)
 * Type 
 * Status
 * Created Date
 * Contact Information

### Description

Summary of the context and proposed improvement: 

 - Summary: Summary of the proposal
 - Motivation, objectives and goals: Explain the motivation for submitting this proposal. Who does it benefit and why is it needed? What will it achieve? Provide any relevant data or research.

- Concerns Outside of Scope(optional): Provide a brief explanation of what is out-of-scope for this proposal and what it is not designed to achieve. 

- Success Metrics(optional): If applicable, what metrics and benchmarks can be tracked to evaluate the success of this proposal.


### Specification

Technical specification of the proposed improvement containing the appropriate syntax and semantics. Should cover the various active implementations of Aion. This section should include following information: 

 - Architectural Overview and Concepts: Walk-through of the design and specification considerations, choices and approach. Provide practical examples of similar implementations, feedback from the community and perspectives on possible concerns.
 - Specifications Details and Code implementation(optional for *Draft*)
 - Reference Implementation(optional for Draft)
 - Risks, assumptions and comments: Breakdown potential risks introduced by this proposal. How does it affect compatibility? Are there any internal or external events that could threaten the effectiveness of this proposal? Provide mitigation strategies for all listed risks and identify any assumptions.

### Test Cases
Provide test cases for the improvements implementation. Test cases are essential in “Core” improvement proposals. 


### Dependencies
  Identify any other AIP's, modules, libraries, or API's that are dependencies for this AIP to be implemented or achieve its value proposition.

### Copyright
All AIP’s are public domain. Copyright waiver to be linked to https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/

## Process Flow

This repository will be the primary source for AIP’s submissions, reviews, discussions and adoption. 
AIP’s begin with an improvement idea for the Aion network. This AIP can be related to any of the above categories, ranging from core technical proposals to informational nature. AIP’s should be composed as a standalone proposal, containing concise detail on a single improvement. In the case of complex AIP’s all related content should be contained within the single AIP. Non-related improvements within a single proposal may be split into multiple AIP’s (editor to suggest to author) along with related AIP’s being migrated into a single co-authored proposal (editor suggestion). The AIP editor will manage the overall hygiene of this repository and reserves the right to reject AIP’s that are non-sensical or unrelated. 

### Pre-AIP

For an AIP to be submitted it must have an author. This author(s) will be the owner(s) and manager(s) of their AIP. Author(s) will be responsible for the maintenance of their proposal and the outreach efforts to gain awareness, discussion, and ultimately consensus. Before composing an AIP it is essential to vet your idea to gain input and feedback from the Aion community across the various channels. Getting this initial support, awareness, and feedback will create a higher quality proposal and should be met with higher engagement. The Aion Forum, Reddit, Gitter, and Discord channels are popular places where community members congregate.

Pre-AIP should at least include the following points:

- What is the improvement idea?
- What does it achieve / what issue it will solve?
- Who will benefited from this improvement?
AIP author should also tag the issue as pre-aip to gain more attention.

:heavy_check_mark: : After discussion, if the AIP author decides to proceed with the pre-AIP, they can follow the AIP proposal template to draft a formal AIP as an issue, fork this AIP, and create a pull request that links to the issue. The AIP author should also commence the status to Draft.

:x: : After discussion, if the AIP author decides to terminate the process with the pre-AIP, they should state the reason in the comment section and close the issue.

:heavy_exclamation_mark: : If a pre-AIP has no new comments or updates for 14 days, the AIP editor should reach out to the AIP author and check the status of the pre-AIP. If no response has been made in three days, AIP editor should close the issue and label it as Abandoned AIP.

### Draft
AIP author should inform the AIP editor once the draft is created. AIP author should then assign the AIP with an AIP number and an appropriate category. The AIP number should follow the format as API-XXX, where XXX should be the same as the issue number and label it as Abandoned AIP.

During the Draft status, AIP’s must complete:

- Soundness: The AIP editor will evaluate the AIP on the basis of completion and technical feasibility.

- Formatting: The AIP editor will enforce formatting standards of the Draft AIP.

> Note: A reference implementation is not mandatory at this stage.

:heavy_check_mark: : AIP Author(s) should request the AIP Editor to review the proposal once it's ready. If the proposal approved by the AIP editor, the AIP author should set the status of the proposal to Discussion.

:x: : The AIP editor has the right to reject the AIP draft on the basis of an incomplete submission, redundant submission, or technically unsound.

:heavy_exclamation_mark: : If an AIP draft has no new comments or updates for 14 days, the AIP editor should reach out to the AIP author and check the status of the AIP. If no response has been made in three days, AIP editor should close the issue.

### Discussion

During the Discussion status, AIP’s must complete:

- Design Description: Overview of the improvements in technical design and specification.

- Discussion: Comprehensive analysis and discussion by the Aion community and core contributors across multiple channels (the proposal repository, Aion Forum, Reddit, Gitter, and/or Discord).

- Implementation: Proposed implementation code. This code must be complete, of the utmost quality, and not be trivially complex. For Core AIPs, the AIP author is responsible for requesting their AIP to be vetted and debated by the Design Authority of Aion Network. The AIP author can request it by informing the AIP editor under the AIP issue.
It is critical that, for the status to be Accepted, the proposed improvement must present a net benefit to the protocol and the overall Aion community.

:heavy_check_mark: :  Following comprehensive discussion, and including reference implementation for Aion Standards and Conventions (ASC), Interfaces, and Procedures, the AIP Author should request that the AIP Editor change the status to Last Call with the final decision(Accepted, Final or Rejected).  For the Core AIPs, the AIP Gate Keeper* will organize a Design Authority dedicates to the AIP, discuss it and make the final decision.

:x: : The AIP editor has the right to reject the request of changing the status to should Last Call if changes are expected to be made to the draft or the reference implementation has not reached consensus. 

:heavy_exclamation_mark: If the AIP has no new comments or updates for 14 days, the AIP editor should reach out to the AIP author to make sure if the AIP is still active. If no response has been made in three days, AIP editor should close the issue and label it as Abandoned AIP.

### Last-call

The AIP Editor will make an announcement Last Call, calling for any final feedback or concerns. This may require the #devrel and #marketing teams for input at this stage. If issues are raised, the AIP editor will change the status back to Discussion and the Author will address the concerns, make changes if required, then request the AIP Editor to make a Last Call announcement, again.

 → **Accepted**: For Core AIP,  if no significant concerns are raised within 14 days, the AIP Editor should change the status to Accepted and merge the proposal into https://github.com/aionnetwork/AIP. Once the update has been adopted by all the clients, the AIP Editor should change the status to Final. 

 → **Final**: For AIP that is ASC, Procedure, and Interface, if no significant concerns are raised within 14 days, the AIP Editor should change the status to Final and merge the proposal into https://github.com/aionnetwork/AIP.

→ **Rejected**: If there is a consensus among the community that this AIP is not needed, feasible, or wanted, the AIP Editor should change the status to Rejected and merge the proposal to https://github.com/aionnetwork/AIP.




## AIP Status Markers

Phase / Status | Description
------------ | -------------
Pre-AIP | TThe Author(s) submit the AIP idea to community members across Aion channels as an AIP issue.
Draft | The Author(s) update their Pre-AIP based on the template and format and create a PR.
Discussion | The AIP is under review. The community are now free to discuss the proposal and either defend or criticize it's points. For Core AIPs, a dedicated group will be assigned by the AIP Gate Keep to review the proposal.
Last-Call | The AIP will be merged in https://github.com/aionnetwork/AIP with the [final decision](#aip-decision-options). 
Final | The AIP has been adopted by the majority of active clients (core); AIP has passed "Final Call" (ASC, Procedure, Memo)

## AIP Decision Options

Decision | Description
---------|-------------
Accepted(Core AIPs only) | The AIP’s implementation code is proposed and executed across the active clients.
Rejected | If there is a consensus among the community that this AIP is not needed, feasible or wanted.
Deprecated | The AIP was previously *Final* but is no longer needed or supported. 
Replaced | The AIP has been replaced by a subsequent AIP that addresses the improvement.


## History
This document was inspired by Ethereum’s EIP-01 by Martin Becze and Hudson Jameson and Bitcoin’s BIP-0001 by Amir Taaki which was derived from Python’s PEP-0001. It also drew suggestions from the JEP process for OpenJDK and EIP draft #956.
