---
Title: To access transaction hash within solidity contract 
Author(s): Rakesh Gohel
Type: ASC (Aion Standards and Conventions)
Status: DRAFT
Creation Date: October 3, 2018
Contact Information: rakesh@mavennet.com
---

## Summary

Need to access transaction hash during solidity method execution.

## Value Proposition

Transaction hash is a unique identifier can be used during the execution of solidity method to save the state.

## Motivation

The primary motivation for the proposol is to save transaction hash when bridge operator contract processes the bundle in bridge operator standard mentioned in AIP-005. 

## Non-Goals

The scope of this document is to provide access to only transaction hash when a solidity contract method being executed. 

## Success Metrics

The key indicator of success for this function can be measured by number of contracts using them. The bidirectional bridge has bridge operator contract which consumes this functionality.

## Description

Bridge operator contract mentioned in AIP-005 processes the bundle reported by the bridge operator. If the bundle has been signed by minimum required signatories, the bridge operator contract initiates thawing token with the help of ATS token contract.

At the end of processing the complete bundle with all those transfer transactions, the bridge operator contract announces on blockchain by mapping bundle hash with transaction hash. If a bundle hash a transction hash associated, it is deemed that the bundle has been processed.

### High-Level Architecture
N/A

## Specification

### Definitions

- Bridge Operator: An organization(s) / project (s) / account that execute the required functions to enable a cross-chain transaction on behalf of the token holder
- Bridge Contract: A smart contract designed to receive, verify and emit events and signature bundles from/to a specific bridge
- Signatory/validator : The entity which independently goes to the source chain to verify the bundle transfer initiated by bridge operator. 
- Bundle : The brige operator create a manageable chunk of transfer transactions initiated by the users from a source chain block. 

### Method

A `constant` function must be implemented.

**`transactionhash` function**

Returns hash of the transaction.

> **returns:** bytes32.

``` solidity
    function transactionhash() public returns (bytes32);
```


## Logic

N/A

### Cross Chain Functionality

N/A

## Risks & Assumptions

*Compatibility notes*:  
*transactionhash* is not supported in Ethereum solidity, in case of porting Aion contract on Ethereum, this function will not be available on Ethereum.

## Test Cases

N/A

## Implementations

N/A

## Dependencies

N/A

## Copyright

All AIP’s are public domain. Copyright waiver: https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
