**AIP**: 009

**Title**: Payroll-style Transactions

**Status**: DRAFT

**Type**: Core & ASC

**Author**: Alexandra Roatis (alexandra@aion.network)

**Created**: November 23rd, 2018

### Summary

Introduce a _new type of transaction_ that allows batching multiple _native coin payments_ initiated from a single account and directed to multiple other accounts and charges a _lower fee_ than the same transactions sent individually.

### Value Proposition

The value of this proposition comes as incentives for network adoption due to reduced fees for transactions.

Mining pools are the first obvious beneficiaries. Batching transactions reduces the pool's fees for submitting payments to miners and also reduces the work needed to confirm that these payments have been processed. Further, the reduced fees for the pools allow them to reduce their own fees, leading to an increased gain for the individual miners.

### Motivation

The motivation here comes from identifying a common use case and improving functionality (i) to benefit the users of the network and (ii) at the same time to improve the performance of the system for this use case.

First, from the user perspective, the percentage of transactions that represent mining pool payouts on the Aion main network is currently approximated at 90% over the lifetime of the network. This is clearly a common use case and reducing the fees associated with these payments would benefit all the participants in the mining process and incentivize new miners to join the network. Another use case would be reducing the cost of performing micropayments for content creators (like SatoshiPay) or crypto bounty programs. Finally, these payroll transactions would also lead to improved cost performance of contracts that need to regularly send out specific amounts of native coins to a set of addresses.

Second, on the technical side, the motivation comes from a reduction in the size of the database that stores the blockchain and in the speed of processing transactions. In a scenario where a single address sends out N transactions, the balance and nonce for that address must be modified N times, probably with multiple input/output operations of storing data to disk and reading it again from disk (especially in the case when these transactions are included in different blocks). By contrast, if the transactions are batched into a single payroll transaction these operations can be reduced by directly computing the final balance of the sender and avoiding all the intermediary operations and required data storage. Moreover, because the overall number of transactions gets reduced, the transaction pool needs to perform fewer transaction reordering and nonce management in the pending state implementation leading to an increased performance on this front as well.

### Non-Goals

This proposal is strictly limited to transferring the balance of native coins from one source to multiple destinations. The topics of batching token transfers and contract calls are interesting follow-ups to this AIP, but not a goal here. A user or contract will gain the ability to initiate such balance transfer transactions, without having the option of using the transaction for any other purpose. Misuse of the functionality will result in an invalid transaction that will be rejected by the kernel.

### Success Metrics

To evaluate the success of this proposal we can track the use of the new type of transaction and the fees saved by the users.

### Description

The proposed _payroll transaction_ would have the following properties:
- a single sender account;
- a list of `(amount, target_account)` pairs, where the amount is specified in native coins.

To be valid the transaction must satisfy the following conditions:
1. the sender has signed the transaction;
2. the sender has enough balance to pay the full amount to be sent (i.e. the total sum of the amounts to be sent to each account in the list);
3. each target account appears only once in the list;

The NRG fee for the payroll transaction follows the formulas below, where `tx` is used for a regular balance transfer transaction, and `ptx[X]` is a payroll transaction with `X` target accounts:
1. `fee(ptx[N]) < N * fee(tx)`, i.e. the cost of performing the payroll transaction is lower than the total cost of performing the equivalent transactions individually;
2. `fee(ptx[N]) > fee(ptx[M])`, where `N > M`, i.e. the cost of a payroll transaction with more transfers is higher than the cost of a payroll transaction with fewer transfers;
3. `fee(ptx[N]) / N < fee(ptx[M]) / M`, where `N > M` and `N < Tmax`, i.e. the per transaction fee decreases proportionally to the number of transactions included in a single payroll transaction (with a fixed lower bound set for a predefined maximum size `Tmax` to be determined experimentally).

### Implementation and Dependencies

The Aion kernel modules that would need to be updated to implement this proposed change are:
* [`modAionBase`](https://github.com/aionnetwork/aion/tree/master/modAionBase) to introduce transaction types in the interface;
* [`modAion`](https://github.com/aionnetwork/aion/tree/master/modAion) to introduce payroll transactions and their receipts;
* [`modAionImpl`](https://github.com/aionnetwork/aion/tree/master/modAionImpl) to implement processing of the payroll transaction inside the blockchain;
* [`modMcf`](https://github.com/aionnetwork/aion/tree/master/modMcf) to add an optimized trie processing of the new payroll transactions;
* [`modApiServer`](https://github.com/aionnetwork/aion/tree/master/modApiServer) for API functionality;

Additionally, the [`aion_web3`](https://github.com/aionnetwork/aion_web3) and the [`aion_api`](https://github.com/aionnetwork/aion_api) APIs would require new functionality for interfacing with the new payroll transactions.

Further, to encourage the use of these transactions, the current mining pool implementation [`aion_pool2`](https://github.com/aionnetwork/aion_pool2) would need to be updated to send out the payment transfers using payroll transactions.

Finally, the dashboard functionality counting the transactions per second needs to be updated to consider the batched transactions individually in the estimate.

### Copyright

All AIPs are public domain. Copyright waiver to be linked to https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/.
